hi my name is Ken Marcou and I'm going
to talk a little bit about how to
recover from dropping a drumstick in the
middle of a set in front of people what
do you do what do you do to drop a
drumstick first step is to chew up you
don't want to get freaked out about it
but you do need to instantly think to
yourself okay what is the most important
part of this inevitably the most
important part is keeping to be not
missing a beat but if you can compromise
in your ear beat that you're playing so
that you maintain the drive which
oftentimes is supplied by by whatever is
playing the most repetitive note like if
you're playing quarter notes on
something or if you're playing eighth
notes on the high hat or the ride cymbal
you want to try to keep hitting that
somehow so that it doesn't sound is a
big void missing you drop a stick you
play with your dominant hand you know so
if you're right-handed you drop your
right stick your left stick to go to
your right hand play with your dominant
hand and your other hand wants to reach
down here is stick bag which should be a
touch to your fourth column or somewhere
close by so that you can have a second
stick again right quick now it takes a
few seconds to realize what's happened
and everything so you just want to stay
calm play with your dominant hand don't
miss any beats but fill in the gaps that
you're missing from only having one hand
as best as you can this takes practice
and you know there's really no right or
wrong way to do it but these are the
main things to remember is to stay calm
and play the most important parts which
are you beat I'm going to demonstrate a
little bit here if I'm playing a drop a
stick I'm going to grab another sick I'm
going to be playing a simple for 4p
now this is a lot easy but easier than
it could have been because it's a very
simple beat and if you hide your
coordination is up to a certain level
where you can easily play this with one
hand and not going to have a problem the
only thing that was missing there was
the one hit on my right hand that was
being compensated four on the snare drum
so it sounds a little bit less
comprehensive but ultimately for for a
measure or two it does the trick